docs: Sentry blog setup (#15583)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2019-05-25-sentry-integration-with-gatsby/index.md

---
title: "Integrating Sentry Into Your Gatsby Project"
date: "2019-05-25"
author: "Jonathan Reeves"
tags:
  - error monitoring
  - post
  - sentry
---

## Assuming knowledge on my part

> I'm going to do something that you are told not to ever do and assume that you already have a project created and are just looking to install an error tracking software to help you fix and resolve errors before any users find it or at least before majority of your users find it and start complaining.

Reviewer: this sentense `I'm going to do something that you are told not to ever do`:
- it is hard to understand what you mean with this as not native
- why it is a `bad thing` to do it

Author: I went ahead and removed that sentence and replaced it with a new one that make more sense.

Now on to the point of this post. How do you install the wonderful software with your Gatsby project. The next few steps are going to show you how to go about doing that. Are you ready? Great let's get started.

## Installation and directory structure

Step 1. Head over to the Sentry website to signup for your free tier. If you have an Azure DevOps account you can use that if not I recommend just using your GitHub account. But if you would rather it be tied to say your email then by all means use that. See below image of signup page.

![Signup Page](./images/sentry-signup-page.png)

Step 2. Now that you are setup with an account and logged in you should be taken to a page that has a navigation on the left with projects, issues, etc. See below screenshot

![Projects Page Example](./images/projects-page.png)

> Step 3. I am going to be using React in this tutorial. We are now going to install the Sentry SDK as a dependency using yarn or npm. You will need to use @sentry/browser as well which we will setup below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 3. I am going to be using React in this tutorial. We are now going to install the Sentry SDK as a dependency using yarn or npm. You will need to use `@sentry/browser` as well which we will setup below.
```

Author: I changed this line to make the command code instead of plain text.

```shell
# Using yarn
$ yarn add @sentry/browser

# Using npm
$ npm install @sentry/browser
```

## React code to connect to Sentry

> After installing Sentry you will be given a value which has been dubbed a DSN or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it's just a representation of the configuration required by the Sentry SDKs. It consists of several things including the protocol, public key, the server address, and the project identifier.

Reviewer: this is step 4...

Author: Added Step 4. text at the beginning.

Reviewer: renumber also the other steps

Reviewer: but i think maybe there is no need for the `step xx` in the text, because the headers guides the user through the steps

import App from src/App';

Sentry.init({dsn: "https://e4d7f7754b8343e2b070ccbc97d26ff7@sentry.io/1469128"});

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

## Trigger your first event from development environment

Step 4. You can actually trigger your first event from your development environment by raising an exception somewhere within your application. A great example, which is in the documentation for Sentry, is to render a button like so:

```js
return <button onClick={methodDoesNotExist}>Break the world</button>
```

## Looking at your events page

Step 5. With the event in place you can now click on the issues link on the navigation bar to your left. This page will list out your events that you have in progress and also in real time. You can use the drop down menus to select how to sort the issues.

![Issues Navigation Link Highlight](./images/navigation-issues.png)

## Seeing the List of User's affected

If you want to see the list of users that are affected by the errors then click on the blue numbers on the issues page. You will then be redirected to the list of users. The below screenshot will show the users list.

> ![Users affected](./images/affected-users.png)

Reviewer: just a nitpick: the image shows a python error description ;)

Author: I changed the example picture to an actual React image. So now when a user uses React it will show a similar error message.

---
title: "Integrating Sentry Into Your Gatsby Project"
date: "2019-05-25"
author: "Jonathan Reeves"
tags:
  - error monitoring
  - post
  - sentry
  - react
---

## Assuming knowledge on my part

In this blog I'm going to assume that you already have a project created and are just looking to install an error tracking software to help you fix and resolve errors before any users find it or at least before majority of your users find it and start complaining.

## What is Sentry?

Are you tired of waiting for users to find and report errors with your application or website? Then look no further than Sentry.

> Sentry is an open-source error tracking library that helps developers monitor and fix crashes in real time. Sentry is iterating continuousy to boost efficiency and improve user experience. No begs the questions how easy is the setup? And what will it cost me? I'm going to answer the second question first, ready? Sentry has a free tier you can start for free right now. The plans are pay as you go. The free tier is most likely all you will need at first. But after your user base grows you might want to consider upgrading. They don't require you to fill out a contract, you can upgrade or downgrade at any time. Rates will be automatically adjusted at the beginning of your next billing cycle. How awesome is that?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sentry is an open-source error tracking library that helps developers monitor and fix crashes in real time. Sentry is iterating continuously to boost efficiency and improve user experience, which begs the questions: How easy is the setup? And second, what will it cost me? I'm going to answer the second question first, ready? Sentry has a free tier you can start right now. The plans are pay as you go. The free tier is most likely all you will need at first. But after your user base grows you might want to consider upgrading. They don't require you to fill out a contract, you can upgrade or downgrade at any time. Rates will be automatically adjusted at the beginning of your next billing cycle. How awesome is that?
```

> Now on to the point of this post. How do you install the wonderful software with your Gatsby project. The next few steps are going to show you how to go about doing that. Are you ready? Great let's get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now on to the point of this post. How do you install the wonderful software with your Gatsby project. The next few steps are going to show you how to go about doing that. Are you ready? Great, let's get started.
```

## Installation and directory structure

> Step 1. Head over to the Sentry website to signup for your free tier. If you have an Azure DevOps account you can use that if not I recommend just using your GitHub account. But if you would rather it be tied to say your email then by all means use that. See below image of signup page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 1. Head over to the Sentry website to signup for your free tier. If you have an Azure DevOps account you can use that; if not, I recommend just using your GitHub account. But if you would rather it be tied to your email then by all means use that. See below image of signup page.
```

![Projects Page Example](./images/projects-page.png)

Step 3. I am going to be using React in this tutorial. We are now going to install the Sentry SDK as a dependency using yarn or npm. You will need to use `@sentry/browser` as well which we will setup below.

```shell
# Using yarn
$ yarn add @sentry/browser

# Using npm
$ npm install @sentry/browser
```

## React code to connect to Sentry

Step 4. After installing Sentry you will be given a value which has been dubbed a DSN or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it's just a representation of the configuration required by the Sentry SDKs. It consists of several things including the protocol, public key, the server address, and the project identifier.

You should initialize the Sentry browser SDK as soon as possible during your application load up, before initializing React.

## index.js

```js
import React from 'react';
import * as Sentry from '@sentry/browser'
import App from src/App';

Sentry.init({dsn: "https://e4d7f7754b8343e2b070ccbc97d26ff7@sentry.io/1469128"});

> ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));

Reviewer 2: Mounting your app to an element like this looks like maybe this in the context of something like `create-react-app`? (which is a great tool too) Content for the blog should be more in line with Gatsby conventions though, meaning initializing Sentry should probably be demonstrated manually somewhere like in the `gatsby-browser` file, or perhaps the setup instructions could follow the [`gatsby-plugin-sentry` installation](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-sentry/?=sentry).
